EDA – what is the data showing?

1.	The highest number of churn with regards to the sales channel shows that the ‘foods..’ channel customers have churned the highest
2.	The churn rate for the gas and electricity is 9.72%
3.	Churn in the ‘lxidp’ Origin channel is higher than the other origin/offer channels
4.  There is a similar churn rate between the customers who are also gas clients and those who are not
5.  The customer who have over a ... number of additional products churned less than customers who have only up to ... number of additional products.
6.  Price data: the line chart of the price data for gas and electricity during the peak periods (P1) show that the price movements of utilities have been increasing overall, with a slight dip in .....

7. Visualise the price data maybe yearly/quarterly to show the negative values in the data.
7b.  Also plot the forecast data against the actual data - highlight the point of the forecast that led to increase in customer churn

8.  When did majority of our customers join?

9.  Which time period saw the highest number of customer leaving?

10. Bivariate plot for price vs churn? - use a correlation matrix to evaluate the relationship betweeen price and if a customer churned or not

11. Plot 

Data cleaning and transformation:
- Data types

- Missing values - (Customer Data) - there were a number of columns that had over 75% of thedata missing, with one field 'campaign_disc_element' with 100% missing data (implying an empty column). This discovery in the
exploratory stage allows for appropriate planning on how to deal with missing values.
There were some columns a small percentage of missing values in the columns. For the columns with over 75% of missing data, these records were removed and the other columns with a low % of missing values, the missing values were imputted using the median values.

- Change formatting of the dates to from object to datetime

- Negative data - there were minimum values for consumption, forecasts and margins. Interpreting these values, the negative consumption, forecast and margin values would mean that the cleint'a SME companies are suppliers, producing their own energy and supplying to PowerCo the supplier.
There are also negative prices in data which could represent refunds? or credits on account? or could simply be data input error. 


Descriptive statistics: 
- The consumption data histograms and box plots show that we have highly skewed data (rightly skewed) and a number of outliers.
- The margins data also has a high number of outliers in the records for margins. 


Feature Engineering: 
When creating models, a number of new features can be created using characteristics relating to customer engagement, customer demographics, products, pricing as well as customer satisfaction data, if available.

-	How can churn data changed over the years? Has it increased lately or decreased overtime? 
-	Tenure: loyal vs new customers – which customers tend to churn more?

Tenure was calculated in the data visualisations step and can be used as a feature for modelling


Data Transformation: 
The highly skewed data was transformed using log transformation. Log transformation does not work with negative data and 0's.
As a result, the histograms for margins and consumptions were re-done and distributions are more distributed; much closer to normal distributions
However, the box plots show that there are still more outliers in the data which needed to be dealt with.

To deal with the outliers, these vlaues can either be replaced with the mean (excluding averages), median or removed. Removing outliers works well for large datasets and so in this case the outliers were replaced with the median.
The median imputation was used as the mena is hevaily influenced by the mean.

To predict the target categorical variable, it would need to be tranformed using one-hot encoding
The dependent variables also need to be encoded into numerical data


Mutlicollinearity; the correlation matrix is used to depict which variables are highly correlated with the target varbales.
calculate correlaton matrix for the customer data and price data against churn.

Train/Test Split: 
80% train, 20% test

Modelling
The objective of the model is to determine if churn is driven by the customers price sensitivities and that it would be possible to predict customers likely to churn using a binary classification model as a predictive model; where the potential outcome will either be churned (1) or not churned (0).


Questions – how did they determine which is the SME data?
**How did they apply the discount?**

